h1. CLAG

If you have an app engine project and you want to expose your data in a different format like, json this library may help you.
This is meant to be a easy to use library that will give you the ability to easily produce data for an Android application to consume and facilitate all the work of sync and update.

h2. How to use it

To use this library is very easy... Include it in your project class path, and in the web.xml make sure to have the configuration that contains.

<pre>
<code>
	<servlet>
                <servlet-name>clag</servlet-name>
                <servlet-class>novoda.clag.servlet.DataController</servlet-class>
                <init-param>
			<param-name>introspector</param-name>
			<param-value>novoda.clag.introspector.jdo.JdoIntrospector</param-value>
		</init-param>
		<init-param>
			<param-name>provider</param-name>
			<param-value>novoda.clag.provider.gae.GaeContentProvider</param-value>
		</init-param>
		<init-param>
			<param-name>converter</param-name>
			<param-value>novoda.clag.converter.json.JsonConverter</param-value>
		</init-param>
		<init-param>
			<param-name>contentClasses</param-name>
			<param-value>org.ls.fgf.shared.Story</param-value>
		</init-param>
	</servlet> 
        <servlet-mapping>
                <servlet-name>clag</servlet-name>
                <url-pattern>/data/*</url-pattern>
        </servlet-mapping>
</code>
</pre>


h2. Design

The design is not complicated at all, there is a servlet, a converter, introspector and a provider.

* Servlet : has the responsabilities to initialize and redirect calls to the provider.
* Converter : a converter is responsible to translate the Entity/Property into some format for example json.
* Introspector : a introspector is used during the initialization to parse and extract from contentClasses a definition (Entity/Property) that can be then used for the generation of the schema or during the convertion.
* Provider : it is a simple wrapper around the data. 
 

h2. Example

If you want to see and example code you can look at this<a href="http://code.google.com/p/facebook-group-feed/">example</a>


h2. Will Do

* Expose data as csv, xml.
* Insert and Updates to complete integration with android.
* Add content provider for some other back end.
* Check possible integration with google chrome extension.


